All right guys.
Now we're going to look at transitions which are similar to how key frame animations work except transitions
happen basically on an event.
So if you hover over something that's a good example you would have a transition with with a property
that is animator bold.
So like the with the color basically anything that we can do with the key frame animations.
So let's create a new file here called 0 9 underscore transitions dot HDMI all OK and we'll put in our
boiler plate here.
Close that up.
Let's put our style and for the body again I'm just going to have a class A BOX.
OK.
We're going to use this element to display transitions.
Now I'm going to add some other styling as well so for the body I'm going to do background three three
three just like we did before.
I'm also going to display it as a flex because the item I want to put it directly in the middle.
So I think this is one of the easiest ways to do that is just displaying as flex doing a line items
center justify content center and then we need a height on it.
So we'll say one hundred viewport heights.
All right.
So let's open this with life server actually opened in the wrong browser.
Let me bring it over.
OK.
So we just have a dark background now let's add the style for the box.
So I'm going to do background whites we'll use color names and let's do a width of one hundred pixels
and a height of one hundred pixels.
So this should give us a square right in the middle of the page.
All right.
Now we're gonna take a look first at the different transition properties and then we'll look at compacting
it into the single transition property just like with with the animation you have a bunch of different
properties and you can combine them just like background properties all that stuff.
Borders this does a shorthand way for just about everything.
Margin padding.
So let's first look at the.
It's actually called Transition property.
OK.
So you're going to say transition dash property.
And here's where we specify which properties we actually want to have a transition on a hover or something
like that.
So we could do all or we could specify a specific property so I'm going to start off with just a specific
property of background.
So that's the property that I want to add a transition to.
And then let's add a transition dash duration.
So this would be in seconds let's say we'll say two seconds.
OK.
Now if I save that nothing happens because the way that this works is like I said it has to be on some
kind of event.
So we're going to add a hover.
So it's a box hover.
And I'm just going to set the background to read.
OK.
That's it.
Now if I save this and I hover over it let me just show you without the transition first.
If we get rid of that and I hover over it it just it just goes to red.
Right.
We've seen this before.
If I use it transition it slowly transitions into red.
And then when I come off it it transitions back to white guy in the in the duration of two seconds.
So you can just use the sign simple button hovers maybe put like one second on the button hover and
it just gives it a smoother effect rather than just you know shifting right to red.
Now we can also add delays if we want.
So we could say transition dash delay say one second.
And now if I if I hover over it nothing's going to happen for one second.
Actually that wasn't really noticeable let's do three seconds and I'm hovering over it.
And after three seconds it starts.
OK.
So that's the transition delay.
We also have the timing function.
I'm going to put that right here.
Transition dash timing function.
And this we're going to use ease in out.
OK.
So basically just like with the key frames and let's comment out the delay and just ease in and out.
So it starts off slow and ends slow.
Now of course you can take all of this and put this all together in just the transition property.
We can say background then we can do it the duration which we'll say two seconds and the timing function
ease in out.
And if we wanted to delay we could add that on here as well.
But I don't want to delay so doing this we should be able to comment all this stuff though because it
does the same exact thing.
So we'll save and then we go.
OK.
Now there's other other things that we can add that we can transition.
So let's let's go ahead and say border dash radius and we'll set that to 50 percent.
Now if I hover over it.
Notice that the transition is only working on the color background color the border radius is just switching
right away.
That's because we didn't specify that here.
Now what I could do is I could add a comma and I could say we also want to transition border radius
that
and now you can see that it transitions.
But what I would probably do here is in all unless there was something you didn't want to transition
for some reason but I want everything here to transition.
So that works the same way we get a cool little effect.
Now we can also do like the height and the width so let's say we want to make it bigger we'll say 300
pixels and say with 300 pixels and save.
And now it goes from a little white school square to a big red circle on hover and it does it very very
smoothly all right.
And again just experiment with it.
There's no use some other properties in fact all the transitional properties I'm actually going to paste
in this file for you guys.
So you have it.
So I'm going to go right here and paste this in.
So transitional properties they have to have an identifiable identifiable and identifiable halfway point.
So things like colors positions with font weight font size max height Max with opacity outline color
visibility with word spacing z index all these things can be different values it can have a halfway
point.
It's not just like it's not binary it's not one or the other.
All right.
So these are all the properties that you can experiment with.
So I'll save that.
And you guys will have that for for reference.
So in the next video I want to look at the transform property which you can use in conjunction with
transitions to do some really cool stuff as far as rotating and moving things around the page things
like that.
All right.
So we'll take a look at transform next.